---
layout: post
title: "Maven :"
date: 2025-07-21
categories: [java, 1-maven--md]
tags: [java, frontend]
author: "GGurkhude"
excerpt: "Learning notes on maven :"
original_path: "JAVA/1_maven_.md"
---

## Maven : 
- `Maven is a powerful build automation and project management tool for Java`
- Manage - depencency, Project Structure, Creating Executable File, Plugins, Build Lifecycle
- **`Build--> compile --> test --> package --> install `**
- Nothing but collection of different architecure which can be used to kick start project ex. a spring boot project or web app or react project. 
#
### 1. Catalog 
   -  essentially a collection of Maven archetypes
### 2. Archetype
   - A Maven archetype is a project template that defines the structure and configuration for a specific type of project
   - Examples of Archetypes:
       ```
       maven-archetype-quickstart: A basic Java project setup.
       maven-archetype-webapp: A template for Java web applications.
       ```
#
### Customizing Archetype Configuration:
- After selecting an archetype, you’ll need to provide information suchas:- Group ID: The base package for your project (e.g., com.example).- Artifact ID: The name of your project.- Version: The project version (e.g., 1.0-SNAPSHOT).
- Ex: 
  ```xml
  <groupId>com.mycompany</groupId>
  <artifactId>user-service</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
  ```
#


### **Artifact** : Executable file
- An artifact in Maven represents the output of your project or module after it is built (e.g., a JAR, WAR, or other package types).
- Each Maven project or module is associated with one artifact, which is uniquely identified by the Group ID, Artifact ID, and Version.
- **Artifact ID** = Name of the Module/Project:
    - `When you build your Maven project, Maven generates an artifact file - ex. JAR`.
    - For example:
        - A Java library project outputs a .jar file (e.g., my-library-1.0.0.jar).
        - A web application project outputs a .war file (e.g., my-webapp-1.0.0.war).
    - Artifacts (e.g., JAR files) can be added as dependencies to other Maven projects. For example:
    ```xml 
    <dependency>
    <groupId>com.mycompany</groupId>
    <artifactId>user-service</artifactId>
    <version>1.0.0</version>
    </dependency>
    ```
   - This allows you to reuse the executable code from one project/module in another project/module